en, zh: add release notes for v1.3.1 (#1694)
pingcap/docs-tidb-operator: en/releases/release-1.3.1.md

---
title: TiDB Operator 1.3.1 Release Notes
---

# TiDB Operator 1.3.1 Release Notes

> Release date: February 23, 2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release date: February 24, 2022
```

TiDB Operator version: 1.3.1

## Compatibility Change

> - Due to issues [#4434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4434) and [#4435](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4435), if you have deployed v5.4.0 version or later verion TiFlash when using v1.3.0 version or v1.3.0-beta.1 version TiDB Operator, you have to upgrade TiDB Operator by the following steps to **avoid TiFlash lose metadata**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Due to the issues in [#4434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4434) and [#4435](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4435), if you have deployed TiFlash v5.4.0 or later versions when using TiDB Operator v1.3.0 or v1.3.0-beta.1, you must upgrade TiDB Operator by taking the following steps to **avoid TiFlash losing metadata**.
```

>     1. If there isn't `storage.rafe.dir` or `raft.kvstore_path` field of TiFlash's config `spec.tiflash.config.config` in TidbCluster spec, you need to add the `storage.raft.dir` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. In TidbCluster spec, if the `storage.rafe.dir` and `raft.kvstore_path` fields in TiFlash's config `spec.tiflash.config.config` are not explicitly configured, you need to add the `storage.raft.dir` field.
```

>     1. In TidbCluster spec, if the `storage.rafe.dir` and `raft.kvstore_path` fields in TiFlash's config `spec.tiflash.config.config` are not explicitly configured, you need to add the `storage.raft.dir` field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. In TidbCluster spec, if the `storage.rafe.dir` and `raft.kvstore_path` fields in TiFlash's config `spec.tiflash.config.config` are not explicitly configured, you need to add the `storage.raft.dir` field. If `storage.main.dir` is not explicitly configured, you need to add the field.
```

    
        ```yaml
        spec:
          # ...
          tiflash:
            config:
              config: |
                # ...
                [storage]
                  [storage.main]
                    dir = ["/data0/db"]
                  [storage.raft]
                    dir = ["/data0/db/kvstore/"]
        ```
      
    2. Upgrade TiDB Operator.

> ## New Features

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## New Feature
```

> - Add a new field `spec.dnsPolicy` to support configure `DNSPolicy` of Pod ([#4420](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4420), [@handlerww](https://github.com/handlerww))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Add a new field `spec.dnsPolicy` to support configuring `DNSPolicy` for Pods ([#4420](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4420), [@handlerww](https://github.com/handlerww))
```

> ## Improvements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Improvement
```

> - `tidb-lightning` Helm chart use `Local-backend` as default backend ([#4426](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4426), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `tidb-lightning` Helm chart uses `Local-backend` as the default backend ([#4426](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4426), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))
```

## Bug fixes

> - Fix the issue that if you don't set `raft.kvstore_path` field or `storage.raft.dir` field in TiFlash's config, TiFlash will lose metadata after upgrading TiFlash to v5.4.0 or later when using v1.3.0 or v1.3.0-beta.1 TiDB Operator ([#4430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4430), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that if the `raft.kvstore_path` field or the `storage.raft.dir` field is not set in TiFlash's config, TiFlash will lose metadata after upgrading TiFlash to v5.4.0 or later versions when using TiDB Operator v1.3.0 or v1.3.0-beta.1 ([#4430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4430), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))
```

> - Fix the issue that can not use TiFlash if there isn't the `tmp_path` field in TiFlash's config ([#4430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4430), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fix the issue that TiFlash does not work if the `tmp_path` field is not set in TiFlash's config ([#4430](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/4430), [@KanShiori](https://github.com/KanShiori))
```
